docs: uuid utilities PTL-1701 (#2008)
genesiscommunitysuccess/docs: docs/001_develop/03_client-capabilities/014_utility-methods/13_uuid-util.mdx

---
title: 'UUID utilities'
sidebar_label: 'UUID utilities'
id: uuid-util
keywords: [utils, utility, uuid, generation, identifier, unique]
tags:
  - utils
  - utility
  - uuid
  - generation
  - identifier
  - unique
---

> This provides a robust solution for generating UUIDs within your application, offering both immediate and potentially remote generation methods, with an optional logging feature for development and debugging purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UUID utilities provide a robust solution for generating UUIDs within your application, offering both immediate and remote generation methods, with an optional logging feature for development and debugging purposes.
```

## Key Features

- **UUID Generation:** Leverages the `uuidv4` library to generate UUIDs, ensuring uniqueness and compliance with the UUID v4 standard.
- **Logging Capability:** Offers an optional parameter to log generated UUIDs, aiding in debugging and tracking ID generation.
- **Configurable Service:** While the current implementation directly uses `uuidv4`, future enhancements may include customizable configurations for UUID generation.

## Use Cases

This module is designed for:
- Generating a Universally Unique Identifier

## Interfaces and Services

- **`UUIDConfig` Interface:** Intended for future use to customize UUID generation through configuration options.
- **`UUID` Interface:** Defines the contract for UUID generation services, including methods for creating IDs and remote IDs, with optional logging.
- **`UUIDService` Class:** Implements the `UUID` interface, providing default behavior for UUID generation and logging.

## Examples

> 

Reviewer 2: Can you add a tip here linking how to do the dependency injection handling in [angular](https://github.com/genesiscommunitysuccess/docs/blob/584d22aeabd7e1073fdcf05b7aa8c17150403f47/docs/001_develop/03_client-capabilities/022_framework-integration/002_integration-angular.mdx?plain=1#L311) and [react](https://github.com/genesiscommunitysuccess/docs/blob/584d22aeabd7e1073fdcf05b7aa8c17150403f47/docs/001_develop/03_client-capabilities/022_framework-integration/003_integration-react.mdx?plain=1#L275)

#### Generating a UUID

```typescript
import { UUID } from '@genesislcap/foundation-utils';
import { FASTElement } from '@microsoft/fast-element';

> 

Reviewer 3: We should be using GenesisElement instead of FASTElement from web-core package. If ypu could please make the same change in below example code as well.
